##BGP: allows you to create loop-free inter-domain routing between autonomous systems (ASs).

Imagine an AS as being like a town's post office. Mail goes from post office to post office until it reaches the right town,
 and that town's post office will then deliver the mail within that town. Similarly,
  data packets cross the Internet by hopping from AS to AS until they reach the AS that contains their destination Internet Protocol (IP) address.
   Routers within that AS send the packet to the IP address.

Every AS controls a specific set of IP addresses,
 just as every town's post office is responsible for delivering mail to all the addresses within that town.
 The range of IP addresses that a given AS has control over is called their "IP address space."

Most ASes connect to several other ASes. If an AS connects to only one other AS and shares the same routing policy,
 it may instead be considered a subnetwork of the first AS.

Typically, each AS is operated by a single large organization, such as an Internet service provider (ISP),
 a large enterprise technology company, a university, or a government agency.

*A network is a group of two or more connected computers.


##How Does BGP Work?

BGP uses TCP as the transport protocol, on port 179. Two BGP routers form a TCP connection between one another.
 These routers are peer routers. The peer routers exchange messages to open and confirm the connection parameters.
BGP routers exchange network reachability information.
 This information is mainly an indication of the full paths that a route must take in order to reach the destination network.
 The paths are BGP AS numbers. This information helps in the construction of a graph of ASs that are loop-free.
  The graph also shows where to apply routing policies in order to enforce some restrictions on the routing behavior.


Any two routers that form a TCP connection in order to exchange BGP routing information are "peers" or "neighbors".
 BGP peers initially exchange the full BGP routing tables. After this exchange, the peers send incremental updates as the routing table changes.
  BGP keeps a version number of the BGP table. The version number is the same for all the BGP peers.
   The version number changes whenever BGP updates the table with routing information changes.
    The send of keepalive packets ensures that the connection between the BGP peers is alive.
     Notification packets go out in response to errors or special conditions.

Two BGP routers become neighbors after the routers establish a TCP connection between each other.
 The TCP connection is essential in order for the two peer routers to start the exchange of routing updates. 

After the TCP connection is up, the routers send open messages in order to exchange values.
 The values that the routers exchange include the AS number,
  the BGP version that the routers run, the BGP router ID, and the keepalive hold time.
  After the confirmation and acceptance of these values, establishment of the neighbor connection occurs.
   Any state other than Established is an indication that the two routers did not become neighbors and that the routers cannot exchange BGP updates. 
